A bill for an act
relating to elections; providing for ranked-choice voting in elections for federal 
and state offices; authorizing jurisdictions to adopt ranked-choice voting for local 
offices; establishing procedures for adoption, implementation, and use of 
ranked-choice voting; allowing municipalities to use electronic voting systems 
with a reallocation feature; authorizing rulemaking;amending Minnesota Statutes 
2020, sections 204B.27, by adding a subdivision; 204B.34, subdivision 1; 204B.35, 
subdivision 1; 204C.19, by adding a subdivision; 204C.21, by adding a subdivision; 
204C.24, subdivision 1; 204C.32, subdivision 1; 204C.33, subdivisions 1, 3; 
204D.08, subdivisions 4, 5; 204D.10, subdivisions 1, 3; 204D.11, subdivision 1; 
205.13, subdivision 2; 206.58, subdivision 1; 206.83; 206.89, subdivisions 2, 3; 
207A.12; 208.05; proposing coding for new law in Minnesota Statutes, chapter 
206; proposing coding for new law as Minnesota Statutes, chapter 204E.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA:

ARTICLE 1
RANKED CHOICE VOTING IMPLEMENTATION

Section 1. [204E.01] APPLICABILITY.
This chapter applies to all elections expressly required or authorized by law to use 
ranked-choice voting. All other provisions of the Minnesota Election Law also apply, to 
the extent they are not inconsistent with this chapter.

Sec. 2. [204E.02] DEFINITIONS.
	Subdivision 1.Scope. The definitions in this section apply to this chapter.
	Subd. 2.Batch elimination.  "Batch elimination" means a simultaneous defeat of multiple 
continuing candidates that have no mathematical chance of being elected.
	Subd. 3.Cast vote record. "Cast vote record" means the tabulatable record of all votes 
produced by a single voter in one voting session.
	Subd. 4.Duplicate ranking. "Duplicate ranking" means a voter has ranked the same 
candidate at multiple rankings for the office being counted.
	Subd. 5.Exhausted ballot. "Exhausted ballot" means a ballot that can no longer be 
advanced under the procedures in section 204E.06.
	Subd. 6.Highest continuing ranking. "Highest continuing ranking" means the ranking 
on a voter's ballot with the lowest numerical value for a continuing candidate.
	Subd. 7.Local election official. "Local election official" means the county auditor or 
municipal clerk responsible for duties related to election administration in the applicable 
jurisdiction.
	Subd. 8.Mathematically impossible to be elected. "Mathematically impossible to be 
elected" means either:
(1) the candidate cannot be elected because the candidate's current vote total plus all 
votes that could possibly be transferred to the candidate in future rounds from candidates 
with fewer votes or an equal number of votes and surplus votes would not be enough to 
surpass the candidate with the next higher current vote total; or
(2) the candidate has a lower current vote total than a candidate who is described by 
clause (1).
	Subd. 9.Overvote. "Overvote" means a voter has ranked more than one candidate at 
the same ranking.
	Subd. 10.Partially defective ballot. "Partially defective ballot" means a ballot that is 
defective to the extent that the election judges are unable to determine the voter's intent with 
respect to the office being counted.
	Subd. 11.Ranked-choice voting. "Ranked-choice voting" means an election method 
in which voters rank candidates for an office in order of their preference, with each vote 
counting for the highest-ranked continuing candidate on each ballot until that candidate has 
been elected or defeated by the method established in this chapter.
	Subd. 12.Ranked-choice voting tabulation center. "Ranked-choice voting tabulation 
center" means the place selected for the automatic or manual processing and tabulation of 
ballots.
	Subd. 13.Ranking. "Ranking" means the number assigned by a voter to a candidate to 
express the voter's preference for that candidate. Ranking number one is the highest ranking. 
A ranking of lower numerical value indicates a greater preference for a candidate than a 
ranking of higher numerical value.
	Subd. 14.Round. "Round" means an instance of the sequence of voting tabulation steps 
established in section 204E.06.
	Subd. 15.Skipped ranking. "Skipped ranking" means a voter has left a ranking blank 
and ranks a candidate at a subsequent ranking.
	Subd. 16.Surplus. "Surplus" means the total number of votes cast for an elected 
candidate in excess of the threshold.
	Subd. 17.Surplus fraction of a vote. "Surplus fraction of a vote" means the proportion 
of each vote to be transferred when a surplus is transferred. The surplus fraction is calculated 
by dividing the surplus by the total votes cast for the elected candidate, calculated to four 
decimal places, ignoring any remainder.
	Subd. 18.Threshold. "Threshold" means the number of votes sufficient for a candidate 
to be elected. In any given election, the threshold equals the total votes counted in the first 
round after removing defective ballots, divided by the sum of one plus the number of offices 
to be filled and adding one to the quotient, disregarding any fractions.
	Subd. 19.Transfer value. "Transfer value" means the fraction of a vote that a transferred 
ballot will contribute to the next ranked continuing candidate on that ballot. The transfer 
value of a vote cast for an elected candidate is calculated by multiplying the surplus fraction 
of each vote by its current value, calculated to four decimal places, ignoring any remainder. 
The transfer value of a vote cast for a defeated candidate is the same as its current value.
	Subd. 20.Transferable vote. "Transferable vote" means a vote or a fraction of a vote 
for a candidate who has been either elected or defeated.
	Subd. 21.Totally defective ballot. "Totally defective ballot" means a ballot that is 
defective to the extent that election judges are unable to determine the voter's intent for any 
office on the ballot.
	Subd. 22.Undervote. "Undervote" means a voter did not rank any candidates for an 
office.

Sec. 3. [204E.03] STATEWIDE IMPLEMENTATION OF RANKED-CHOICE 
VOTING; AUTHORIZATION FOR LOCAL ADOPTION.
	Subdivision 1.Application to federal and state offices. The ranked-choice voting 
procedure established in this chapter must be the method used to nominate and elect 
candidates for federal offices, state constitutional offices, and the legislature at every regular 
or special primary or general election conducted in the state. To the extent a conflict exists 
between this chapter and another provision of the Minnesota Election Law pertaining to the 
process of casting or counting votes at an election at which ranked-choice voting is used, 
this chapter prevails.
	Subd. 2.Local authorization. (a) The following political subdivisions may adopt, in 
the manner provided in this section, ranked-choice voting as a method of voting for local 
offices within the political subdivision:
(1) home rule charter or statutory cities;
(2) counties;
(3) townships; and
(4) school districts.
(b) A jurisdiction that adopts ranked-choice voting may do so by adopting an ordinance 
or resolution or by a ballot question presented to the voters. The ranked-choice voting 
method may be repealed by one of the same methods provided for adoption.
(c) A home rule charter jurisdiction that adopts a ranked-choice voting system in its 
charter may adopt this chapter by reference in an ordinance, but is not required to do so. 
Nothing in this chapter prevents a home rule charter jurisdiction from adopting another 
voting method in its charter.
(d) Ranked-choice voting must only be used to elect local offices at a general or special 
election, or at a primary election which serves as a party-nominating election for a partisan 
office. A primary election must not be held for any nonpartisan offices that are elected using 
ranked-choice voting.
(e) A jurisdiction that adopts the use of ranked-choice voting in local elections must do 
so no later than 30 days before the first day for filing affidavits of candidacy for the office 
for which ranked-choice voting is to be used as the method of election.
(f) Repeal of ranked-choice voting must be no later than 30 days before the first day for 
filing affidavits of candidacy for offices for which ranked-choice voting is used as the 
method of election.
(g) The local election official must notify the secretary of state and, if applicable, the 
county auditor within 30 days following adoption or repeal of ranked-choice voting.

Sec. 4. [204E.04] BALLOTS.
	Subdivision 1.Ballot format. (a) If there are three or more qualified candidates, a ballot 
must allow a voter to rank at least three candidates for each office in order of preference 
and must also allow the voter to add write-in candidates.
(b) A ballot must:
(1) include instructions to voters that clearly indicate how to mark the ballot;
(2) include instructions to voters that clearly indicate how to rank candidates in order 
of the voter's preference; and
(3) indicate the number of seats to be elected for each office.
(c) A jurisdiction may use ballots compatible with alphanumeric character recognition 
voting equipment.
	Subd. 2.Mixed-election method ballots. If elections are held in which ranked-choice 
voting is used in addition to other methods of voting, the ranked-choice voting and 
non-ranked-choice voting elections must be on the same ballot card if possible, with 
ranked-choice voting and non-ranked-choice voting portions clearly separated on the ballot 
card. A separate ballot card may be used if necessary. A jurisdiction may deviate from the 
standard ballot order of offices to allow separation of ranked-choice voting and 
non-ranked-choice voting elections.
	Subd. 3.Ballot format rules. The local election official must establish administrative 
rules for ballot format after a voting mechanism has been selected, consistent with this 
section.

Sec. 5. [204E.05] RANKED-CHOICE VOTING TABULATION CENTER.
	Subdivision 1.Tabulation of votes; generally. The local election official must designate 
one location to serve as the ranked-choice voting tabulation center. If the tabulation includes 
a manual count of physical ballots, the center must be accessible to the public for the purpose 
of observing the vote tabulation. Tabulation of votes must be conducted as described in 
section 204E.06.
	Subd. 2.Precinct tabulation. When the hours for voting have ended and all voting has 
concluded, the election judges in each precinct must record and publicly declare the number 
of first choices cast for each candidate in that precinct. The election judges must then securely 
transfer all electronic voting data and ballots from the precinct to the ranked-choice voting 
tabulation center designated under this section. Upon receipt at the ranked-choice voting 
tabulation center, all electronic voting data and ballots must be secured.
	Subd. 3.Notice of recess in count. In the event the tabulation of the ballots is conducted 
manually, at any time following receipt of materials under subdivision 1, the local election 
official may declare a recess. Notice of the recess must include the date, time, and location 
at which the process of recording and tabulating votes will resume and the reason for the 
recess. Notice must be posted on the city's official bulletin board and on the door of the 
ranked-choice voting tabulation center.
	Subd. 4.Recording write-in votes. At a time set by the local election official, the 
election judges shall convene at the ranked-choice voting tabulation center to examine 
ballots on which voters have indicated a write-in choice, and record the names and number 
of votes received by each write-in candidate. In the event that votes cast for the write-in 
category are not eliminated as provided in section 204E.06, the results must be entered into 
the ranked-choice voting tabulation software.
	Subd. 5.Ranked-choice vote tabulation. After all votes have been recorded, and at a 
time set by the local election official, the process of tabulating votes cast for offices to be 
elected using the ranked-choice method must begin. The counting must continue until 
preliminary results for all races are determined, subject to subdivision 3.

Sec. 6. [204E.06] TABULATION OF VOTES.
(a) Tabulation of votes must proceed in rounds for each office to be counted. The 
threshold must be calculated and publicly declared. Each round must proceed sequentially 
as follows:
(1) the number of votes cast for each candidate for the current round must be counted. 
If the number of candidates whose vote totals equal or exceed the threshold are equal to the 
number of seats to be filled, those candidates who are continuing candidates are elected and 
the tabulation is complete. If the number of candidates whose vote totals are equal to or 
greater than the threshold is not equal to the number of seats to be filled, a new round begins 
and the tabulation must continue as provided in the remainder of this paragraph;
(2) surplus votes for any candidates whose vote totals are equal to or greater than the 
threshold must be calculated;
(3) after any surplus votes are calculated but not yet transferred, all candidates for whom 
it is mathematically impossible to be elected must be defeated by batch elimination. Votes 
for the defeated candidates must be transferred to each ballot's next-ranked continuing 
candidate, and the tabulation process reiterates beginning with clause (2). If no candidate 
can be defeated mathematically, the tabulation must continue as described in clause (4);
(4) the transfer value of each vote cast for an elected candidate must be transferred to 
the next continuing candidate on that ballot. Of the candidates whose vote totals reach or 
exceed the threshold, the candidate with the largest surplus is declared elected and that 
candidate's surplus is transferred. A tie between two or more candidates must immediately 
and publicly be resolved by lot by the local election official at the tabulation center. The 
surplus of the candidate chosen by lot must be transferred before other transfers are made. 
The result of the tie resolution must be recorded and reused in the event of a recount. If no 
candidate has a surplus, the tabulation must continue as described in clause (5); otherwise, 
the tabulation process must reiterate beginning with clause (2);
(5) if there are no transferable surplus votes, the candidate with the fewest votes is 
defeated. Votes for the defeated candidate must be transferred to each ballot's next-ranked 
continuing candidate. Ties between candidates with the fewest votes must be decided by 
lot, and the candidate chosen by lot must be defeated. The result of the tie resolution must 
be recorded and reused in the event of a recount. The tabulation process must reiterate 
beginning with clause (2); and
(6) the procedures in clauses (2) to (5) must be repeated until the number of candidates 
whose vote totals are equal to or exceed the threshold is equal to the number of seats to be 
filled, or until the number of continuing candidates is equal to the number of offices yet to 
be elected. If the number of continuing candidates is equal to the number of offices yet to 
be elected, the remaining continuing candidates must be declared elected. In the case of a 
tie between two continuing candidates, the tie must be decided by lot as provided in section 
204C.34, and the candidate chosen by lot must be defeated. The result of the tie resolution 
must be recorded and reused in the event of a recount.
(b) When a single skipped ranking is encountered on a ballot, that ballot must count 
toward the next nonskipped ranking. If any ballot cannot be advanced because no further 
candidates are ranked on that ballot, because a voter has skipped more than one ranking, or 
because an undervote, overvote, or duplicate ranking is encountered, the ballot must not 
count toward any candidate in that round or in subsequent rounds for the office being 
counted.

Sec. 7. [204E.07] REPORTING RESULTS.
(a) Each precinct must print a precinct summary statement, which must include the 
number of first choices cast for each candidate in that precinct.
(b) The local election official must provide a summary statement with the following 
information: total votes cast; number of undervotes; number of totally defective and spoiled 
ballots; threshold calculation; total first choice rankings for all candidates; round-by-round 
tabulation results, including simultaneous batch eliminations, surplus transfers if applicable, 
and defeated candidate transfers; and exhausted ballots at each round.
(c) In jurisdictions where ballots are scanned and recorded electronically, the local 
election official must provide an electronically available spreadsheet of the cast vote record.
(d) The election abstract must include the information required in the ranked-choice 
voting tabulation center summary statement, with the addition of the number of registered 
voters by precinct, the number of same-day voter registrations, and the number of absentee 
voters.

Sec. 8. [204E.08] RECOUNTS.
(a) A candidate defeated in the final round of tabulation may request a recount as provided 
in section 204C.35 or 204C.36.
(b) A candidate defeated in the final round of tabulation when the vote difference is 
greater than that provided in section 204C.35 or 204C.36 may request a recount at the 
candidate's own expense. A candidate defeated in an earlier round of tabulation may request 
a recount at the candidate's own expense. The candidate is responsible for all expenses 
associated with the recount, regardless of the vote difference between the candidates in the 
round in which the requesting candidate was defeated. The requesting candidate shall file 
with the filing officer a bond, cash, or surety in an amount set by the filing officer for the 
payment of the recount expenses. Expenses must be determined as provided in section 
204C.35, subdivision 2, or 204C.36, subdivision 4.
(c) Rules adopted by the secretary of state under section 204C.36 for recounts apply to 
recounts conducted under this section.

Sec. 9. [204E.09] RULES.
The secretary of state may adopt rules necessary to implement the requirements and 
procedures established by this chapter.

ARTICLE 2
CONFORMING CHANGES

Section 1. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204B.27, is amended by adding a subdivision 
to read:
	Subd. 12.Ranked-choice voting training and outreach. Prior to each state primary 
and state general election, the secretary of state must conduct outreach and educational 
activities to provide voters with impartial information on the process for properly completing 
a ranked-choice voting ballot.

Sec. 2. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204B.34, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.State elections. At least 15 days before any state primary or state general 
election the municipal clerk shall post in the clerk's office a notice stating the offices for 
which candidates must be nominated or elected, the location of each polling place in the 
municipality, and the hours for voting, and that the election will be conducted using the 
ranked-choice voting method. An optional provision of the notice may include municipal 
offices for which candidates must be nominated or elected. The county auditor shall post a 
similar notice in the auditor's office including information concerning any polling places 
in unorganized territory in the county. The governing body of a municipality or county may 
publish this notice in addition to posting it. Failure to give the notice required in this section 
shall not invalidate a state primary or state general election.

Sec. 3. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204B.35, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.Application. All ballots for every election shall be prepared in accordance 
with sections 204B.35 to 204B.44 and chapter chapters 204D and 204E, except for voting 
machine ballots or as otherwise provided by law.

Sec. 4. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204C.19, is amended by adding a subdivision to 
read:
	Subd. 4.Ranked-choice voting election. Notwithstanding the requirements of this 
section, the votes cast in a ranked-choice voting election must be counted according to the 
procedures established in chapter 204E.

Sec. 5. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204C.21, is amended by adding a subdivision to 
read:
	Subd. 4.Ranked-choice voting election. Notwithstanding the requirements of this 
section, the votes cast in a ranked-choice voting election must be counted according to the 
procedures established in chapter 204E.

Sec. 6. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204C.24, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.Information requirements. Precinct summary statements shall be 
submitted by the election judges in every precinct. For all elections, the election judges 
shall complete three or more copies of the summary statements, and each copy shall contain 
the following information for each kind of ballot:
(1) the number of ballots delivered to the precinct as adjusted by the actual count made 
by the election judges, the number of unofficial ballots made, and the number of absentee 
ballots delivered to the precinct;
(2) the number of votes each candidate received or the number of yes and no votes on 
each question, the number of undervotes, the number of overvotes, and the number of 
defective ballots with respect to each office or question;
(3) the number of spoiled ballots, the number of duplicate ballots made, the number of 
absentee ballots rejected, and the number of unused ballots, presuming that the total count 
provided on each package of unopened prepackaged ballots is correct;
(4) the number of individuals who voted at the election in the precinct which must equal 
the total number of ballots cast in the precinct, as required by sections 204C.20 and 206.86, 
subdivision 1;
(5) the number of voters registering on election day in that precinct; and
(6) the signatures of the election judges who counted the ballots certifying that all of the 
ballots cast were properly piled, checked, and counted; and that the numbers entered by the 
election judges on the summary statements correctly show the number of votes cast for each 
candidate and for and against each question.; and
(7) in the case of a ranked-choice voting election, any additional information required 
by section 204E.07.
At least two copies of the summary statement must be prepared for elections not held 
on the same day as the state elections.

Sec. 7. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204C.32, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.County canvass. The county canvassing board shall meet at the county 
auditor's office on either the second or third day following the state primary. After taking 
the oath of office, the canvassing board shall publicly canvass the election returns delivered 
to the county auditor. The board shall complete the canvass by the third day following the 
state primary and shall promptly prepare and file with the county auditor a report that states:
(a) the number of individuals voting at the election in the county, and in each precinct;
(b) the number of individuals registering to vote on election day and the number of 
individuals registered before election day in each precinct;
(c) for each major political party, the names of the candidates running for each partisan 
office and the number of votes received by each candidate in the county and in each precinct;
(d) the names of the candidates of each major political party who are nominated; and
(e) the number of votes received by each of the candidates for nonpartisan office in each 
precinct in the county and the names of the candidates nominated for nonpartisan office.; 
and
(f) in the case of ranked-choice voting election, any additional information required by 
chapter 204E.
Upon completion of the canvass, the county auditor shall mail or deliver a notice of 
nomination to each nominee for county office voted for only in that county. The county 
auditor shall transmit one of the certified copies of the county canvassing board report for 
state and federal offices to the secretary of state by express mail or similar service 
immediately upon conclusion of the county canvass. The secretary of state shall mail a 
notice of nomination to each nominee for state or federal office.

Sec. 8. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204C.33, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.County canvass. The county canvassing board shall meet at the county 
auditor's office between the third and tenth days following the state general election. After 
taking the oath of office, the board shall promptly and publicly canvass the general election 
returns delivered to the county auditor. Upon completion of the canvass, the board shall 
promptly prepare and file with the county auditor a report which states:
(a) the number of individuals voting at the election in the county and in each precinct;
(b) the number of individuals registering to vote on election day and the number of 
individuals registered before election day in each precinct;
(c) the names of the candidates for each office and the number of votes received by each 
candidate in the county and in each precinct;
(d) the number of votes counted for and against a proposed change of county lines or 
county seat; and
(e) the number of votes counted for and against a constitutional amendment or other 
question in the county and in each precinct.; and
(f) in the case of ranked-choice voting election, any additional information required by 
chapter 204E.
The result of write-in votes cast on the general election ballots must be compiled by the 
county auditor before the county canvass, except that write-in votes for a candidate for 
federal, state, or county office must not be counted unless the candidate has timely filed a 
request under section 204B.09, subdivision 3. The county auditor shall arrange for each 
municipality to provide an adequate number of election judges to perform this duty or the 
county auditor may appoint additional election judges for this purpose. The county auditor 
may open the envelopes or containers in which the voted ballots have been sealed in order 
to count and record the write-in votes and must reseal the voted ballots at the conclusion of 
this process. The county auditor must prepare a separate report of votes received by precinct 
for write-in candidates for federal, state, and county offices who have requested under 
section 204B.09 that votes for those candidates be tallied.
Upon completion of the canvass, the county canvassing board shall declare the candidate 
duly elected who received the highest number of votes for each county and state office voted 
for only within the county. The county auditor shall transmit a certified copy of the county 
canvassing board report for state and federal offices to the secretary of state by messenger, 
express mail, or similar service immediately upon conclusion of the county canvass.

Sec. 9. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204C.33, subdivision 3, is amended to read:
	Subd. 3.State canvass. The State Canvassing Board shall meet at a public meeting 
space located in the Capitol complex area on the third Tuesday following the state general 
election to canvass the certified copies of the county canvassing board reports received from 
the county auditors and shall prepare a report that states:
(1) the number of individuals voting in the state and in each county;
(2) the number of votes received by each of the candidates, specifying the counties in 
which they were cast; and
(3) the number of votes counted for and against each constitutional amendment, specifying 
the counties in which they were cast.; and
(4) any additional information required by chapter 204E.
All members of the State Canvassing Board shall sign the report and certify its 
correctness. The State Canvassing Board shall declare the result within three days after 
completing the canvass.

Sec. 10. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204D.08, subdivision 4, is amended to read:
	Subd. 4.State partisan primary ballot; party columns. The state partisan primary 
ballot shall be headed by the words "State Partisan Primary Ballot." The ballot shall be 
printed on white paper. There must be at least three vertical columns on the ballot and each 
major political party shall have a separate column headed by the words ".......... Party," 
giving the party name. The ballot must be formatted for a ranked-choice voting election 
according to rule established by the secretary of state, provided that the ballot format must 
clearly distinguish between each major political party by listing the party name. Above the 
party names, the following statement shall be printed.
"Minnesota Election Law permits you to vote for the candidates of only one political 
party in a state partisan primary election."
If there are only two major political parties to be listed on the ballot, one party must 
occupy the left-hand column, the other party must occupy the right-hand column, and the 
center column The ballot must contain the following statement:
"Do not vote for candidates of more than one party."
The names of the candidates seeking the nomination of each major political party shall 
be listed in that party's column under that party's name. If only one individual files an 
affidavit of candidacy seeking the nomination of a major political party for an office, the 
name of that individual shall be placed on the state partisan primary ballot at the appropriate 
location in that party's column under that party's name.
In each column Within each party, the candidates for senator in Congress shall be listed 
first, candidates for representative in Congress second, candidates for state senator third, 
candidates for state representative fourth and then candidates for state office in the order 
specified by the secretary of state.
The party columns typeface used for each party shall be substantially the same in width, 
type, and appearance. The columns parties shall be separated by a 12-point solid line.

Sec. 11. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204D.08, subdivision 5, is amended to read:
	Subd. 5.Party columns; arrangement. The names of candidates for nomination of the 
major political party that received the smallest average vote at the last state general election 
must be placed in the first column on the left side of the ballot, or in the first position of the 
ballot. The names of candidates for nomination of the major political party that received 
the next smallest average vote at the last state general election must be placed in the second 
column, or the second position on the ballot, and so on. The average vote shall be computed 
in the manner provided in section 204D.13, subdivision 2.

Sec. 12. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204D.10, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.Partisan offices; nominees. The candidate for nomination of a major 
political party for a partisan office on the state partisan primary ballot who receives the 
highest number of votes according to the tabulation procedure established in chapter 204E
shall be the nominee of that political party for that office.

Sec. 13. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204D.10, subdivision 3, is amended to read:
	Subd. 3.Nonpartisan offices; nominees. The candidates for each office on the state 
and county nonpartisan primary ballot receiving the highest and the next highest number 
of votes according to the tabulation procedure established in chapter 204E shall be the 
nominees for that office. When more than one individual is to be elected to the same 
nonpartisan office, the number of nominees shall be equal to twice the number of individuals 
to be elected, and that number of candidates receiving the highest number of votes shall be 
the nominees for that office.

Sec. 14. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 204D.11, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.State general election ballot; rules. The names of the candidates for all 
state and federal offices, all proposed constitutional amendments, all county offices and 
questions, and all judicial offices voted on at the state general election shall be placed on a 
single ballot that shall be known as the "state general election ballot." This ballot shall be 
prepared by the county auditor subject to the requirements of chapter 204E and the rules of 
the secretary of state. The secretary of state shall adopt rules for preparation and time of 
delivery of the state general election ballot.

Sec. 15. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 205.13, subdivision 2, is amended to read:
	Subd. 2.Notice of filing dates. At least two weeks before the first day to file affidavits 
of candidacy, the municipal clerk shall publish a notice stating the first and last dates on 
which affidavits of candidacy may be filed in the clerk's office and the closing time for 
filing on the last day for filing. The clerk shall post a similar notice at least ten days before 
the first day to file affidavits of candidacy. The notice must indicate the method of election 
to be used for the offices on the ballot. The notice must separately list any office for which 
affidavits of candidacy may be filed to fill the unexpired portion of a term when a special 
election is being held to fill a vacancy as provided in section 412.02, subdivision 2a.

Sec. 16. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 206.58, subdivision 1, is amended to read:
	Subdivision 1.Municipalities. (a) The governing body of a municipality, at a regular 
meeting or at a special meeting called for the purpose, may provide for the use of an 
electronic voting system in one or more precincts and at all elections in the precincts, subject 
to approval by the county auditor. The governing body shall disseminate information to the 
public about the use of a new voting system at least 60 days prior to the election and shall 
provide for instruction of voters with a demonstration voting system in a public place for 
the six weeks immediately prior to the first election at which the new voting system will be 
used.
(b) No system may be adopted or used unless it has been approved by the secretary of 
state pursuant to section 206.57.
(c) The governing body of a municipality may provide for the use of an electronic voting 
system that has been approved by the secretary of state under section 206.57 but includes 
an automatic tabulating equipment reallocation feature that has not been approved by the 
secretary of state if the municipal clerk certifies to the secretary of state, within 30 days 
from the date of adoption under paragraph (a), that the reallocation feature:
(1) has been certified as required under section 206.57, subdivision 6; and
(2) meets the municipality's ordinance requirements for electronic voting systems.

Sec. 17. [206.802] ELECTRONIC VOTING SYSTEMS; PURCHASING.
Any new voting system purchased for use in Minnesota for the purpose of replacing a 
voting system must have the ability to:
(1) capture, store, and publicly report ballot data;
(2) to the extent practicable, produce a single human-readable file for each contest on 
the ballot containing all cast vote records captured for that contest;
(3) keep data anonymous;
(4) accept ranked or cumulative voting data under a variety of tabulation rules;
(5) be programmable to follow all other specifications of the ranked-choice voting system 
as provided in chapter 204E;
(6) provide a minimum of three rankings for ranked-choice voting elections;
(7) to the extent practicable, notify voters of the following errors: overvotes, skipped 
rankings, and duplicate rankings in a ranked-choice voting election; and
(8) be programmable to print a zero tape indicating all rankings for all candidates in a 
ranked-choice voting election.

EFFECTIVE DATE. This section is effective upon certification by the secretary of 
state that equipment meeting the standards required by this section is available for purchase 
and implementation.

Sec. 18. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 206.83, is amended to read:
206.83 TESTING OF VOTING SYSTEMS.
(a) Within 14 days before election day, the official in charge of elections shall have the 
voting system tested to ascertain that the system will correctly mark ballots using all methods 
supported by the system, including ranked-choice voting if applicable, and through assistive 
technology, and count the votes cast for all candidates and on all questions. Public notice 
of the time and place of the test must be given at least two days in advance by publication 
once in official newspapers. The test must be observed by at least two election judges, who 
are not of the same major political party, and must be open to representatives of the political 
parties, candidates, the press, and the public. The test must be conducted by (1) processing 
a preaudited group of ballots punched or marked to record a predetermined number of valid 
votes for each candidate and on each question, and must include for each office one or more 
ballot cards which have votes in excess of the number allowed by law in order to test the 
ability of the voting system tabulator and electronic ballot marker to reject those votes; and 
(2) processing an additional test deck of ballots marked using the electronic ballot marker 
for the precinct, including ballots marked using the electronic ballot display, audio ballot 
reader, and any assistive voting technology used with the electronic ballot marker. If an 
election is to be conducted using ranked-choice voting, the equipment must also be tested 
to ensure that each ranking for each candidate is recorded properly.
(b) If any error is detected, the cause must be ascertained and corrected and an errorless 
count must be made before the voting system may be used in the election.
(c) After the completion of the test, the programs used and ballot cards must be sealed, 
retained, and disposed of as provided for paper ballots.

Sec. 19. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 206.89, subdivision 2, is amended to read:
	Subd. 2.Selection for review; notice.  At the canvass of the state primary, the county 
canvassing board in each county must set the date, time, and place for the postelection 
review of the state general election to be held under this section. In jurisdictions where 
ranked-choice voting is used, the date, time, and place for postelection review must be set 
by the local election official at least 30 days before the election. The postelection review 
must not begin before the 11th day after the state general election and must be complete no 
later than the 18th day after the state general election.
At the canvass of the state general election, the county canvassing boards must select 
the precincts to be reviewed by lot. The ballots to be reviewed for a precinct include both 
the ballots counted at the polling place for that precinct and the absentee ballots counted 
centrally by a ballot board for that precinct. The county canvassing board of a county with 
fewer than 50,000 registered voters must conduct a postelection review of a total of at least 
two precincts. The county canvassing board of a county with between 50,000 and 100,000 
registered voters must conduct a review of a total of at least three precincts. The county 
canvassing board of a county with over 100,000 registered voters must conduct a review 
of a total of at least four precincts, or three percent of the total number of precincts in the 
county, whichever is greater. At least one precinct selected in each county must have had 
more than 150 votes cast at the general election.
The county auditor must notify the secretary of state of the precincts that have been 
chosen for review and the time and place the postelection review for that county will be 
conducted, as soon as the decisions are made. If the selection of precincts has not resulted 
in the selection of at least four precincts in each congressional district, the secretary of state 
may require counties to select by lot additional precincts to meet the congressional district 
requirement. The secretary of state must post this information on the office website.

Sec. 20. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 206.89, subdivision 3, is amended to read:
	Subd. 3.Scope and conduct of review.  The county canvassing board shall appoint the 
postelection review official as defined in subdivision 1. The postelection review must be 
conducted of the votes cast for president or governor; United States senator; and United 
States representative. In jurisdictions where ranked-choice voting is used, the review must 
also include at least one single-seat ranked-choice voting election and at least one 
multiple-seat ranked-choice voting election, if such an election occurred. A postelection 
review of a ranked-choice voting election must be conducted for elections decided most 
closely in the final round, by percentage. The same requirement applies in jurisdictions 
where ranked-choice voting is used in odd-year elections. The postelection review official 
may conduct postelection review of the votes cast for additional offices.
The postelection review must be conducted in public at the location where the voted 
ballots have been securely stored after the state general election or at another location chosen 
by the county canvassing board. The postelection review official for each precinct selected 
must conduct the postelection review and may be assisted by election judges designated by 
the postelection review official for this purpose. The party balance requirement of section 
204B.19 applies to election judges designated for the review. The postelection review must 
consist of a manual count of the ballots used in the precincts selected and must be performed 
in the manner provided by section 204C.21. The postelection review must be conducted in 
the manner provided for recounts under section 204C.361 to the extent practicable, and 
where ranked-choice voting is used, must include testing of the accumulation software using 
stored electronic data for those precincts that are not reviewed by manual count. The review 
must be completed no later than two days before the meeting of the state canvassing board 
to certify the results of the state general election.

Sec. 21. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 207A.12, is amended to read:
207A.12 CONDUCTING PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION PRIMARY.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the presidential nomination primary must be 
conducted, and the results canvassed and returned, using the ranked-choice voting method 
provided in chapter 204E, in the manner provided by law for the state primary.
(b) An individual seeking to vote at the presidential nomination primary must be 
registered to vote pursuant to section 201.054, subdivision 1. The voter must request the 
ballot of the party for whose candidate the individual wishes to vote. Notwithstanding section 
204C.18, subdivision 1, the election judge must record in the polling place roster the name 
of the political party whose ballot the voter requested. When posting voter history pursuant 
to section 201.171, the county auditor must include the name of the political party whose 
ballot the voter requested. The political party ballot selected by a voter is private data on 
individuals as defined under section 13.02, subdivision 12, except as provided in section 
201.091, subdivision 4a.
(c) Immediately after the state canvassing board declares the results of the presidential 
nomination primary, the secretary of state must notify the chair of each party of the results.
(d) The results of the presidential nomination primary must bind the election of delegates 
in each party.

Sec. 22. Minnesota Statutes 2020, section 208.05, is amended to read:
208.05 STATE CANVASSING BOARD.
The State Canvassing Board at its meeting on the date provided in section 204C.33 shall 
open and canvass the returns made to the secretary of state for presidential electors and 
alternates, prepare a statement of the number of votes cast for the persons receiving votes 
for these offices, and declare the person or persons receiving the highest number of votes 
for each office according to the tabulation procedure established in chapter 204E duly 
elected. When it appears that more than the number of persons to be elected as presidential 
electors or alternates have the highest and an equal number of votes, the secretary of state, 
in the presence of the board shall decide by lot which of the persons shall be declared elected. 
The governor shall transmit to each person declared elected a certificate of election, signed 
by the governor, sealed with the state seal, and countersigned by the secretary of state.
